Zika virus (ZIKV) remains a significant global public health threat due to its association with severe neurological and ocular abnormalities, including microcephaly and congenital glaucoma in infants. Viruses often exploit host metabolic programs, such as energy and lipid metabolism, to support their replication. However, how ZIKV-driven metabolic reprogramming affects the anterior segment of the eye, especially trabecular meshwork (TM) cells, remains poorly defined. In this study, we investigated the roles of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling, fatty acid (FA) metabolism, and lipid droplet (LD) biogenesis in ZIKV-induced ocular pathogenesis using primary human TM cells and an IFNAR1-deficient mouse model. ZIKV infection triggered time-dependent activation of the LKB1-AMPK-ACC signaling axis and significantly increased LD accumulation. Pharmacological activation of AMPK suppressed viral replication, whereas its inhibition enhanced infection, highlighting an antiviral role for AMPK signaling. In contrast, ZIKV promoted LD biogenesis, and inhibition of DGAT1 reduced both LD formation and viral replication, indicating a proviral role for LDs. Modulation of FA metabolism further revealed differential effects on ZIKV infection: saturated FA (palmitate) enhanced viral replication, whereas inhibition of FA oxidation with etomoxir reduced infection. Conversely, unsaturated FAs (oleate and linoleate) suppressed viral replication, in part by impairing viral binding and entry. Collectively, these findings show that ZIKV reshapes host metabolic pathways in TM by differentially engaging AMPK signaling, FA metabolism, and LD biogenesis to promote viral replication and spread in ocular tissue. Targeting these metabolic pathways may offer promising therapeutic avenues for preventing and/or treating ZIKV-associated ocular complications.
Soybeans are a high-quality plant-based food with both nutritional value and physiological activity, widely used in various fields such as food and feed. The quality evolution during soybean storage is a complex biological process regulated by multiple factors, but the mechanism of quality deterioration during long-term soybean storage is not yet fully understood. To reveal the underlying mechanism of soybean deterioration, this study constructed an accelerated storage simulation system under normal temperature and humidity conditions (20 °C, 65% RH) for 0-3 years, and explored the changes in the metabolic network during soybean storage and its intrinsic relationship with quality deterioration through non-targeted metabolomics. The results showed that with prolonged storage time, the brightness of soybeans significantly decreased, while the accumulation of free fatty acids (FFA) and formaldehyde (MDA) in the oil significantly increased, increasing by 364% and 134%, respectively. Metabolomics analysis identified a total of 903 differential metabolites, with lipids and lipid molecules accounting for the highest proportion. Compared with the control group, after storage, a total of 5 KEGG pathways were significantly enriched (p < 0.01), among which the linoleic acid metabolic pathway played an important regulatory role in soybean storage. The study on the correlation between significantly enriched lipid differential substances and lipid metabolites in this pathway found that there was a significant positive correlation between the relevant metabolites, with an overall correlation coefficient above 0.74, fully demonstrating the key regulatory role of linoleic acid metabolism in soybean oil oxidation. Lipoxygenase and cytochrome P450 have been found to play key regulatory roles in the linoleic acid metabolism pathway, with their key metabolites Linoleate, 13-HPODE, 13-KODE, 9-KODE, and 12,13-DHOME significantly accumulating during storage. Further analysis of the correlation between metabolites and soybean oxidation products, FFA, and malondialdehyde revealed a positive correlation, with a correlation coefficient above 0.83, providing potential evidence for early warning of quality deterioration. This study systematically analyzed the dynamic relationship between storage time and metabolic network, not only elucidating the key metabolic pathways of soybean quality deterioration during storage, but also providing a theoretical basis for establishing quality maintenance technology based on lipid metabolism regulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and potential mechanisms of Huang'e capsule (, HEC) against benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).The chemical profile of HEC was characterized using high-performance liquid chromatographyquadrupole-time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) techniques. Network pharmacology was employed to analyze potential active compounds, core targets, and key signaling pathways. A spontaneous canine BPH model was used to evaluate the efficacy of HEC and to validate the predictions from network pharmacology.A total of 51 chemical components of HEC were identified, comprising 19 from HPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS and 32 from GC-MS analyses. The "components-targets-pathways-disease" network analysis predicted active compounds including (s)-coriolic acid, ethyl linoleate, peroxysimulenoline, physcion, and kaempferol. Core targets identified included cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1, estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), ESR1, and androgen receptor (AR). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis suggested that HEC's effects on BPH involve pathways related to cancer, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) -protein kinase B (Akt)-signaling, proteoglycans in cancer, and prostate cancer signaling. Animal experiments showed that HEC significantly improved maximum urinary flow rates, reduced prostate weight, volume, and prostate index, and ameliorated histopathological changes. HEC regulated the balance between apoptosis and proliferation by downregulating AR and estrogen receptor alpha expression, while upregulating estrogen receptor beta expression.These findings indicate that HEC effectively ameliorates spontaneous BPH in beagle dogs, likely by regulating the balance between cell apoptosis and proliferation through multiple signaling pathways.
Hyalomma dromedarii is a hard tick species parasitizing domestic animals, particularly camels. Heavy infestation results in huge economic losses through severe blood loss and transmission of pathogens, in addition to crucial problems for camel production. Worldwide control of ticks is mainly based on acaricides, which have led to environmental pollution, resistance development, and an increase in the cost of control. To reduce the drawbacks of chemical acaricides, new tick control methods are therefore required, such as the application of natural plant extracts. Citrullus colocynthis, commonly known as bitter apple, is a desert plant found in Egypt. It has an economic importance due to its bioactive compounds with antidiabetic, antimicrobial, and potentially anticancer properties. In addition, it is used as a natural preservative, as it was historically applied to protect Egyptian manuscripts and leather from fungal damage. The goal of this work was to study the histopathological and ultrastructural changes of H. dromedarii integument after immersion in 100 mg/mL of C. colocynthis ethanolic extract. Volatile components of the extract were detected following the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy examinations provided evidence that C. colocynthis caused great damage to the integument. Increasing eroded areas with irregular folds and warts were observed by SEM. LM and TEM showed integumental layers separation, procuticle disorganization, subcuticular layer rupture and epidermal layer damage. GC-MS revealed volatile constituents, such as methyl linoleate, octadecadienoic, palmitic, and stearic acids. This is the first histological investigation that reported the integumentary damage caused by C. colocynthis in H. dromedarii. The present data suggest that the changes in all integument layers of the female tick H. dromedarii following treatment with C. colocynthis extract may facilitate the transport of toxic compounds into ticks' internal systems, which can then affect other organs. As a result, C. colocynthis can be considered as a promising tick control agent.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tobacco aging is a critical for developing desirable flavor profiles, driven primarily by microbial and enzymatic activities. This study systematically evaluated the effects of Bacillus clausii inoculation (FJ) and B. clausii-cellulase co-treatment (JM) on the surface microbial communities and aroma compounds of Yunyan 87 tobacco leaves during 9 months of aging, with natural aging as the control (CK). High-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that the JM treatment significantly increased microbial diversity and enhanced the structural similarity of microbial communities across different aging stages compared with the CK and FJ treatments, while also promoting the proliferation of beneficial taxa (e.g., Bacteroidota, Cyanobacteria). PICRUSt functional prediction revealed that JM enriched metabolic pathways related to carbohydrate metabolism (18.2-20.6%), amino acid metabolism (15.1-16.7%), and metabolism of cofactors and vitamins (16.5-17.7%)-key pathways for flavor precursor conversion. A total of 29 key aroma compounds (odor activity value > 1) were significantly influenced the quality of tobacco leaves, with JM significantly increasing total volatile content (317.1-388.8 μg/g vs. 124.7-143.0 μg/g in CK and 283.2-300.8 μg/g in FJ). Notably, JM promoted the accumulation of esters (ethyl palmitate, ethyl linoleate) and ketones (4,7,9-megastigmatrien-3-one, damascenone), contributing desirable fruity, floral, and sweet notes. Correlation analysis linked Pseudomonas, Bacillus, and Acinetobacter to the formation of key volatiles. These findings demonstrate that microbial-enzyme co-fermentation enriched desirable aromas, and stabilized microbial communities, providing a practical and efficient strategy for industrial production of high-quality aged tobacco.© 2026. The Author(s).
Obesity-related changes in adipose tissue alter local secretory profiles and influence interactions with other surrounding cells, including cancer cells. The continued delivery of nutrients shifts the metabolism of fat cells, making them act as a lipid reservoir. Typically, research on obesity mechanisms relies on animal models, which, however, do not allow analysis of metabolic processes at the cellular level. Hence, there is a need to develop a reliable in vitro model of human obesity that can help explore changes in the function of obese adipocytes compared to their lean counterparts. This work presents a protocol for the differentiation of human adipocytes from their precursors (adipose-derived stem cells) using a mixture of insulin, isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, dexamethasone, and indomethacin. Subsequently, differentiated adipocytes were incubated with a set of fatty acids, including linoleate, palmitate, and oleate, to promote lipid accumulation. As a result, a valuable model mimicking the hypertrophic cells under obesity conditions was achieved, which can be used for further studies.
This study aimed on the production of camel skin gelatin hydrolysates (CSGHs) using Savinase and Neutrase at varying hydrolysis levels. The Savinase-derived fraction (CSGH_S50) showed potent antioxidant capacity in terms of DPPH• radical-scavenging, ferric reducing power, β-carotene-linoleate bleaching and ferrous-ion chelating activities. Interestingly, this fraction maintained its activity under wide pH variations, prolonged thermal treatment and simulated gastrointestinal digestion. In parallel, the Neutrase-derived fraction (CSGH_N50) showed notable antimicrobial activity against Salmonella enterica. Cherry tomatoes, known for their delicate skin and high respiration rate, were used as a model of highly perishable fresh produce. Coating experiments revealed that incorporating CSGH_S50 into camel skin gelatin significantly enhanced key quality attributes of cherry tomatoes during storage. The enriched coatings effectively reduced deterioration and microbial growth, thereby extending the fruits' shelf-life. Overall, these findings demonstrated the potential of CSGHs as natural, multifunctional agents for improving the preservation and safety of fresh products.© 2026 The Authors.
Hyper-osmotic stress in high-sugar fruits inhibits the fermentation performance of lactic acid bacteria (LAB). Besides, there is a prevailing trend of low-sugar diets for health concern. Therefore, it is essential to develop LAB strains with high-sugar tolerance and efficient sugar metabolism. In this study, three high-sugar-adaptive strains (2-12 mutations) were obtained through random mutagenesis and screening at 150 g/L glucose. When applied to high-sugar goji juice fermentation, they reduced glucose from 92.26 to 28.85 g/L, reached 2.56*109 CFU/mL, and shifted the sensory profile from sweet and herbal to fruity and pleasantly sour. Metabolomics revealed enrichment of bioactive metabolites such as indole-3-lactate (+22.32%), linoleate (+16.37%) and spermine (+64.50%) in strain LP-4-3*. Mechanistically, high-glucose-adaptive LAB accumulated more maltose, galactitol, and glycosylated phenolic compounds to alleviate osmotic pressure induced by high glucose. This study highlights the potential of high-glucose-adaptive LAB in developing low-sugar and health-promoting fermented fruit juices.© 2026. The Author(s).
Linoleic acid (LA, C18:2n-6) is a required nutrient that supports mitochondrial function as a component of the inner mitochondrial membrane, cardiolipin (CL). Tetralinoleoyl CL (LA4CL) supports optimal fatty acid oxidation, which is impaired in the liver in adults with metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD). Data were analyzed from 74 adults with MAFLD recruited from the Columbus region, Ohio, United States. Fatty acid content and CL species were measured in blood and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Liver fat was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging-proton density fat fraction, and liver stiffness was assessed using magnetic resonance elastography. Although plasma LA was not significantly associated with liver fat or stiffness, there was a borderline inverse association with liver fat in females (P = 0.091). Plasma LA was negatively associated with hepatic steatosis index (P = 0.014) and homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) (P = 0.05). Plasma LA was positively correlated with LA4CL in PBMC expressed as a percentage of total cardiolipin (r = 0.501, P < 0.001) and 72-C CL (r = 0.535, P < 0.001). Borderline inverse relationships with liver fat were observed for LA4CL expressed as a percentage of 72-C CL (P = 0.074) and total CL (P = 0.063). LA4CL (% of 72-C CL) was positively associated with HOMA-IR in men (P = 0.006) but not women. Plasma LA was inversely associated with the presence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (odds ratio = 0.831, 95% confidence interval = 0.711, 0.955, P = 0.013). Mediation analysis indicated that HOMA-IR accounted for ∼25.2% of this relationship.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Remodeling of cardiolipin (CL) is altered in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of individuals with metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD), with reduced linoleic acid (LA). Whether specific CL species, such as LA4CL in PBMCs, or circulating LA levels relate to liver stiffness or hepatic fat is unknown. This study identifies both global- and sex-specific associations between plasma LA, PBMC-derived LA4CL, hepatic fat, liver stiffness, and type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults with MAFLD.
The identification of characteristic volatile compounds in Doubanjiang is of great significance for aroma analysis. In this study, the flavor components of Pixian Doubanjiang at different stages were systematically detected by using flavoromics techniques and quantum mechanics. The results suggested that electronic nose combined with OPLS-DA model effectively distinguished the samples with different fermentation stages. Linalool, phenylacetaldehyde, ethyl phenylacetate, ethyl decanoate, phenethyl ethanol and methyl linoleate were identified as the key aroma components based on OAV analysis, with ethyl phenylacetate being considered as the core aroma component. Then, density functional theory (DFT) was employed for the first time to explore the interactions among Doubanjiang flavor substances at the molecular level, which indicated that ethyl phenylacetate interacted with other flavor substances through electrostatic adsorption to achieve a steady state. These results elucidated core aroma components and molecular binding mechanisms governing Doubanjiang flavor, revealing DFT as a predictive framework for flavor modulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
